SSENSS
------

SSENSS (The Simple Spectral Element Navier-Stokes Solver) is a parallel
Navier-Stokes solver based on the spectral element method, and designed to be
used for direct numerical simulations of turbulent flow.


Installation
------------
To install SSENSS you need a C compiler, an MPI library, a version of the BLAS
libary, a version of the LAPACK library and an MPI version of the HDF5
library.

If you use gcc and openmpi (the most common alternatives on any Linux
platform), compilation is done by issuing the "make" command in the root
directory. For other compilers and MPI libraries, the CC, CFLAGS and LIBS
variables must be modified by either changing the Makefile in the root
directory or using 'make CC=c_compiler CFLAGS=compiler_flags
LIBS=library_flags'.


Usage
-----
To run a simulation, you need a setup file, a grid file and an initial
condition file. Examples of these files are found in the "examples" folder.
The simulation is run by using e.g. 'mpirun -np 2 ssenss' in the folder where
the setup file is located. To run a test simulation, use the flag "--run-test"
(e.g. 'mpirun -np 2 ssenss --run-test') or the abbreviated "-rt".

A brief explanation of the parameters specified in the setup file:
dt: Timestep
tmax: Simulation time
n: Polynomial order
visc: Kinematic viscosity
dens: Density
gx: X-component of source term
gy: Y-component of source term
gz: Z-component of source term
write_every: File writing period
datdir: Folder to store simulation data
gridfile: Path to gridfile
initfile: Path to initial condition file

It is possible to override some of these parameter values using command line
flags, such as '-n' ('--n'), '-d' ('--dens'), '-v' ('--visc'), '-dt' ('--dt'),
'-t' ('--tmax').

For example, to run a test simulation with polynomial order 10 and timestep 0.01
on 4 processors, you can use 'mpirun -np 4 ssenss -rt -n 10 -dt 0.01'.


Contacts
--------
SSENSS was written by Christopher Nilsen. You can contact him at
research@christophernilsen.no.
